[THEME MUSIC]
>>RICHARD DOLAN: Hello,
I'm Richard Dolan.
And this is False Flags.
On the morning of
September 11, 2001,
a series of incredible,
tragic events
unfolded before the
eyes of the world
as we learn that four
commercial airliners had
been hijacked by terrorists.
By the end of the morning,
the world had changed.
Three of the aircraft had hit
targets, the two largest towers
of the World Trade
Center in New York City
and the Pentagon
in Washington DC.
The fourth airliner
crashed near the small town
of Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
We were told it was probably
headed for the White House.
Thousands of people
died, the lion's share
coming from people who
were in the World Trade
Center at the time.
President George W.
Bush and his team
featuring people like Vice
President Dick Cheney,
Secretary of Defense Donald
Rumsfeld, National Security
Adviser Condoleezza
Rice, and many others
told us that America had
been attacked by terrorists.
>>PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH:
Today, our fellow citizens,
our way of life,
our very freedom
came under attack in a series
of deliberate and deadly
terrorist acts.
>>RICHARD: They immediately
identified Osama bin Laden
as the leader of the group known
as al-Qaeda that had planned
and organized the attack.
President Bush and his
national security team
sprung into action.
Within a month, the US
had invaded the nation
of Afghanistan
where we were told
Osama bin Laden was hiding out.
Within 18 months, the US
had also invaded Iraq,
despite the fact that the
US government admitted
that Iraq had nothing
to do with the attack.
From the beginning,
no one in America
was allowed to question the
so-called truths of 9/11.
President Bush himself
called on the nation
not to tolerate crazy
conspiracy theories about 9/11.
>>PRESIDENT BUSH: Let us never
tolerate outrageous conspiracy
theories concerning the
attacks of September the 11th,
malicious lies that attempt
to shift the blame away
from the terrorists themselves,
away from the guilty.
>>RICHARD: And, indeed, the
mainstream media obliged him.
Its coverage became
a straight jacket
of conformity, a
state of affairs that
has lasted to the present day.
Out of 9/11, we ended up
with the USA Patriot Act,
the Homeland Security Act, and
the never-ending series of laws
that have eviscerated
our rights as citizens;
privacy, gone, the
right to habeas corpus,
gone if the government
labels you a terrorist.
A culture of conformity has
spread from the mainstream
media to the very
fabric of our society,
a rigid ideological mindset
that has replaced the political
with the cultural.
That is don't
question our politics.
Instead, focus on culture,
language, race, and identity.
Stay divided.
Fight each other.
Meanwhile, we will gobble up
your rights while we're at it.
So let's look at the events
of 9/11 with a clear eye
since there's a lot
that is wrong with it.
Regarding the north and south
towers of the World Trade
Center, we were told
immediately and repeatedly
that they collapsed.
We were given a full-on
media blitz essentially
that the crash of airplanes
and subsequent fires
caused a total collapse
of the Twin Towers.
There is an alternative
narrative, actually
several somewhat competing
alternative narratives.
But all of them effectively
debunked the official narrative
and state in one form or
another that these structures
were brought down
through other means
via some type of
controlled demolition,
whether these be
with highly advanced,
albeit conventional explosives
like nano-engineered thermite
or even a limited
nuclear detonation,
or then even more exotic
energy-based weapons systems.
I'm not here to be the arbiter
of these or other competing
theories.
I will, however, offer you this.
Never in the history of
steel frame architecture,
not before 9/11 or
since, had fires,
even fires that raged
for days and consumed
much of the building,
had ever caused
the collapse of a
steel-framed structure.
And yet on September
11, 2001, it
happened not once, not
twice, but three times
because another building
came down that day as well,
famously known as Building 7.
The World Trade Center was
a seven-building complex
and Building 7 was
47 stories tall.
No aircraft hit it.
Yet just like the
North and South towers
earlier that day, it
came down at 5:20 PM
amid huge billows of dust.
Yes, there was a fire
on one of the floors.
But this was not a
towering inferno.
Moreover, watch
the building fall.
You see the roof
cave in slightly
and then the entire
structure comes down
at virtual free fall speed.
It hits the ground
at 6.3 seconds.
All the available
evidence on Building 7
prior to its collapse
doesn't show anything more
than superficial
structural damage
from the earlier destruction
of the Twin Towers
and a few isolated fires.
The thing about Building
7, it fell straight down.
That meant, as with
the two other towers,
all of the load-bearing
columns had
to be broken at the same moment.
You need that kind of
precision if you're
going to prevent a building
from toppling over.
That's what the science
of controlled demolition
is all about, which,
of course, that
is exactly what it looks like.
Think about it.
In the history of
architecture, the only times
a steel-framed
structure came down
like this was when a controlled
demolition was responsible,
never any other time.
And yet this question has never
been asked by the establishment
media.
All three of the
buildings came down
to virtual free fall speed, all
that steel, all that support,
all that matter offering zero
resistance to the rate of fall.
Really?
We were told that the fire
melted the steel, well,
initially.
Then the argument was modified
because it was ludicrous.
Steel won't melt until it
reaches 1,500 degrees Celsius.
You can't get such temperatures
without pressurized air
like you get in a blast furnace.
So, instead, we were told
that the heat from the fires
weakened the steel
enough in both cases
to bring them down in a huge
pile of dust at free fall
speed.
Scientific Americans said
this with a straight face
as early as October 2001.
BBC told us, Popular Mechanics,
NOVA documentaries, and so on.
They all said the fire
getting as hot as 800 degrees
weakened the steel supporting
the buildings enough to bring
them both down, and
I guess Building 7,
which they never talked about.
But here's the thing.
What we are seldom
told is how unlikely
it was that these fires
could have reached
the temperatures necessary to
do that for any length of time,
in particular, the South
Tower fires, surprisingly
not that big a deal, at least
from a structural standpoint.
They never spread to the
opposite side of the building
and gave off a darkening
smoke that dwindled
as the morning progressed.
There were not even any visible
flames before it came down.
The Fire Chief,
Orio Palmer, who was
on the 78th floor
of the South Tower
described the fire
in that building as,
quote, two isolated pockets.
>>ORIO PALMER: We've got two
isolated pockets of fire.
We should be able to knock
it down with two lines.
Radio that, 78th floor,
numerous 10-45 code one's.
>>RICHARD: He went on to
tell his comrades, quote,
we should be able to knock
it down with two lines.
The official report on
9/11 concealed the fact
that the firefighters had
reached the crash zone.
This should be no surprise
since, in the case of the South
Tower strike, most of the
fuel probably burned up
in the impact fireball.
Look at the photograph.
And the fact is that the
fires in the two towers
went through a
similar progression.
Initially, in each you see
widespread, visible flames
and light gray smoke.
Then the flames became smaller
and the smoke became darker.
When you get dark smoke
and no visible flames,
it means less heat,
less intensity,
not a pressurized,
intense inferno.
But here's the thing.
I can't help but go back to
this video of a vertical steel
column simply vanishing
before my eyes.
It didn't crumple up or
fall over or stand up
jutting into the air
like you would expect.
No, it disintegrates
before our eyes.
You see, the buildings
of the World Trade Center
didn't collapse.
They disintegrated into an
exploding cloud of dust.
We're talking about 1,000 feet
of intact structural steel
and cement
obliterated instantly.
Never mind that no steel-framed
skyscraper had ever
totally collapsed due to any
cause or combination of causes.
We're talking bombings, fires,
earthquakes, hurricanes,
nothing other than demolition.
Never mind that the incredible
disintegration of the towers
didn't look like
anything that has ever
happened, not once, not
twice, but three times.
And why did Building 7 fall?
But any true
forensic analysis was
prevented since
this 16-acre crime
scene was off limits to any
independent investigation,
indeed, off limits
to any investigation
since all of the steel
was removed and destroyed
immediately after the
fall of the buildings.
These were the three
largest structural failures
in history, no investigation.
Oh, sure, the government issued
a report some years later.
But there is no way to do
a proper investigation.
Just 11 days after
the attack, a company
called Controlled
Demolition, which
did the cleanup after the
Oklahoma City bombing,
got the contract to remove
the debris at the World Trade
Center.
The steel was sold cheap
to scrap metal vendors
and most of it was quickly
shipped to India and China.
Trucks hauling the
steel were even
outfitted with
$1,000 GPS locators.
The public was completely
banned from the area.
When the government
did issue its report,
it never addressed
the basic questions.
It never brought up the history
of steel-framed structures,
never addressed how the massive
core columns just melted away.
And it certainly did not
address how Building 7 came down
into a pile of dust.
But, oh, much of the World Trade
Center may have disintegrated.
But we did learn that one of the
hijacker's passports was found.
How lucky.
Among the mountains
of debris, we
are told that the passport
of hijacker Satam al-Suqami
was found a few blocks from
the World Trade Center.
He was supposedly on
Flight 11, the plane
that hit the North Tower.
Just to remind you,
in that collision,
the building's core absorbed
almost the entire airplane.
So there's that.
And, oh, the BBC announced
the fall of Building 7
20 minutes before it happened.
>>BBC ANCHORMAN: -the Salomon
Brothers building collapsing.
And, indeed, it has.
It seems that this was not
the result of a new attack.
It was because the
building had been weakened
during this morning's attacks.
We'll probably find
out more about that
from our correspondent,
Jane Stanley.
Jane, what more can you tell
us about the Salomon Brothers
building and its collapse?
>>JANE STANLEY: Well, only
really what you already know.
Details are very, very sketchy.
As you can see behind
me, the Trade Center
appears to be still burning.
We see these huge
clouds of smoke and ash.
And we know that behind there
is an empty piece of what
was a very familiar New
York skyline, a symbol
of the financial prosperity
of this city that's completely
disappeared now.
And New York is still
unable to take on board what
has happened to them today.
>>RICHARD: On this broadcast,
when it was announced,
you actually see the
building in the backdrop.
And, oh, yeah, we have
the famous statement
of World Trade Center building
owner, Larry Silverstein,
who talked about how Building
7 needed to be pulled.
>> LARRY SILVERSTEIN:
As you know,
we've had such
terrible loss of life.
Maybe the smartest
thing to do is pull it.
And they made that
decision to pull.
And then we watched
the building collapse.
>>RICHARD: Now, regarding
New York, clearly
the cause of why the towers
fell has not been adequately
explained, officially at least.
Then there's the Pentagon,
more serious problems
of explanation.
American Airlines
Flight 77, a Boeing 757,
is supposed to have crashed
into the Pentagon at 9:37 AM.
There are several pieces of
physical evidence and elements
of the body of
eyewitness evidence
that rule out the official
account of the crash.
Officially, the flight
was taken over hundreds
of miles away by a suicide
pilot named Hani Hanjour and two
accomplices.
He presumably fought his
way into the cockpit,
took out the two pilots, even
though one was a former F-4
Fighter jock and a tough
looking guy if you ask me,
somehow got control
over the aircraft,
even though he flunked a
flight test the previous month
for a puddle-jumping Cessna,
had the presence of mind to turn
off his transponder, turn the
plane around above the clouds,
then, surpassing Christopher
Columbus in the art of dead
reckoning, flew with precision
back to DC, saw his target,
swooped down 7,000 feet in
three minutes in a beautiful
corkscrew maneuver--
so good, by the way, that the
air traffic controllers assumed
that he was a jet fighter and
said, thank God, where have you
guys been all the time--
and approaching the Pentagon
at such a shallow angle
that its wings clipped
lampposts on the highway
at an altitude of 20 feet
and a speed of roughly
400 miles per hour--
which is, by the way,
essentially an impossibility
for a plane of that
size and type--
and then plows into
the first floor
of the newly renovated
west block of the Pentagon.
I have interviewed
three commercial pilots
about that particular maneuver.
All of them said they
could not have executed
such an amazing maneuver.
Incidentally, any
commercial aircraft
that is clipping
multiple lampposts
is not going to keep flying.
It's going to crash
into the ground
with a lot of fire and
metal and bodies all around.
Oh, all we have in
terms of evidence
are a couple of fuzzy still
frames from a webcam attached
to the Pentagon.
There was a rooftop video
on a nearby Sheraton Hotel
which captured the event.
We have never seen
it, ditto, a video
from a gas station next door
which also captured the event,
confiscated by
government agents.
Indeed, 9/11 researchers have
identified many other video
cameras that capture this
event, no video of which
has ever been made public.
The pattern of damage
to the building
itself is not consistent
with the impact of a 757.
Evidence of aircraft
debris is scarce.
And conspicuously absent
are recognizable objects
like luggage, seats, and bodies.
The lawn of the
Pentagon looks like you
could have a picnic on it.
>>CNN ANCHORMAN: You know, it
might have appeared that way.
But from my close-up
inspection, there's
no evidence of a plane
having crashed anywhere
near the Pentagon.
The only site is the
actual site of the building
that's crashed in.
And as I said, the only
pieces left that you can see
are small enough that you
could pick up in your hand.
There are no large tail
sections, wing sections,
a fuselage, nothing like
that anywhere around,
which would indicate that
the entire plane crashed
into the side of the Pentagon.
>>RICHARD: Only one
piece of aircraft debris
larger than small shards was
seen by passersby outside
of the building.
And that piece which has been
identified as from an American
Airlines 757 has been
called into question
by a number of 9/11 researchers
who argue that it was planted.
Now, you might think
that's going too far.
But, in fact, no other
significant debris
has ever been shown.
It's very odd to say the least.
Moreover, the hole in
the Pentagon itself
surely does not
seem large enough
to have taken in the
full width of the wings
and tail of the airplane.
Even if those parts
were shredded on impact,
they should have left a few tons
of debris outside the building.
Also, people who
were on the scene
could not explain what happened
to 60 tons of aluminum that
supposedly hit the Pentagon.
Arlington County Fire
Chief, Ed Plaugher,
was there on the scene.
On the day after the attack,
a journalist asked him,
is there anything left
of the aircraft at all?
And here's what he said.
>>ED PLAUGHER: First off, the
question about the aircraft,
there are some small
pieces of aircraft
visible from the interior
during this firefighting
operation I'm talking about,
but not large sections.
In other words, there's
no fuselage sections
and that sort of thing.
>>PRESS INTERVIEWER:
Chief, there
were small pieces of
the plane virtually all
over the highway, tiny pieces.
Would you say the plane
exploded, virtually exploded,
on impact due to the fuselage?
>>ED PLAUGHER: You know, I'd
rather not comment on that.
We have a lot of
eyewitnesses that
can give you better information
about what actually happened
with the aircraft
as it approached.
So we don't know.
>>RICHARD: Oh, so you'd
rather not comment on that.
Well, that's great.
There are images
showing what can
happen to a commercial jet when
it hits birds while in flight.
The damage sometimes
can be severe.
When you consider that
an airplane fuselage is
essentially a hollow
tube, you have
to wonder, how is
it going to punch
a deep hole through reinforced
concrete, the headquarters
of the world's most
powerful military?
A couple of other things
about the Pentagon strike,
several witnesses
described a shockwave
that knocked them to the
ground, both inside and outside
the building.
Several described
it as a concussion.
What was that?
Now, maybe it was as
the government claimed
and the jetliner had the
world's greatest hijacker pilot,
made the world's most
impossible moves, slammed
into the Pentagon, and
essentially disappeared
into the building, leaving no
fuselage or parts that the fire
chief could identify.
But unfortunately, most
of the specific evidence
that would prove it
really was Flight 77
is unavailable to the public.
The entire scenario appears
incredibly improbable.
And all we have ever had to
support the official story
are statements from
the authorities,
no evidence of any sort.
Now we move on to the
crash of United 93
in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
One question,
where is the plane?
No image of the plane
exists anywhere.
Why not?
>>NEWS ANCHOR: The reason why
it's so hard for investigators
to find out what happened here
is because there's practically
nothing left of the aircraft.
That crater you see behind
where all of those workers are
is the point of impact where
the plane fell from the sky.
And that is all that is left.
>>RICHARD: We're told
some really silly things
like the plane melted
right into the ground.
Sorry, but that's not how
planes crash into hard ground.
Even somewhat softer ground
is unbelievably dense.
A large commercial
airliner is not
going to dive into the ground.
Something hit the ground, yes.
But where was the plane?
What exactly happened
at Shanksville?
Then there are the phone calls.
You may recall a number
of cell phone calls
were allegedly made that day by
people in the various hijacked
planes.
To be exact, there
were said to be
15 calls that were
described at the time
as cell phone calls and about
10 of those were from Flight 93.
>>FEMALE AUTOMATION:
Tuesday 9:47 AM.
>>CEECEE: Hi, baby.
I'm-- baby, you have to
listen to me carefully.
I'm on a plane
that's been hijacked.
I'm on the plane.
I'm calling from the plane.
I want to tell you I love you.
Please tell my children
that I love them very much.
And I'm so sorry, babe.
I don't know what to say.
There's three guys.
They hijacked the plane.
I'm trying to be calm.
We're turned around.
And I heard that there's
planes that that's been flown
into the World Trade center.
I hope to be able to see
your face again, baby.
I love you.
Goodbye.
>>RICHARD: It was so
dramatic that they
gave an image to the world
of passengers fighting back
to take control of the aircraft
and was even made into a movie.
>>FLIGHT 93 ACTOR:
We have to do it now
because we know what
happens if we just sit here
and do nothing.
>>RICHARD: Well,
many researchers
have looked into this.
The superb 9/11 researcher,
David Ray Griffin,
wrote about these phone calls.
He pointed out that cell phone
technology available in 2001
made it impossible for cell
phone calls from airliners
at altitudes of more
than a few thousand feet,
especially calls lasting
more than a few seconds.
And yet many of the
reported cell phone calls
happened when the planes were
above 25,000 feet or even
40,000 feet.
And several of these
lasted a minute or more.
One of them reportedly
lasted for 12 minutes.
He cited the work of Canadian
scientist and mathematician,
A.K. Dewdney, who demonstrated
this impossibility, at least
the impossibility
of all but two calls
which were made from
less than 5,000 feet.
At 20,000 feet, Dewdney wrote,
the chance of a typical cell
phone call making it to ground
and engaging a cell site,
there is less than one in 100.
The probability that two callers
will succeed is less than one
in 10,000.
The likelihood of
13 successful calls,
Dewdney added, would
be infinitesimal.
Also, there are real
oddities about the strategy
of the hijackers
themselves and definitely
about the response of
the jet interceptors.
The four planes
commandeered on September 11
either flew to their targets
from distant airports
or flew hundreds of miles
away from their targets
before turning around.
There are three
international airports
within five minutes
flying distance
from the World Trade Center.
Yet the hijackers selected
Flights 11 and 175
originating from Boston,
which is 40 minutes' flight
time away.
Flight 77, the plane that we
are told hit the Pentagon,
took off from
Dulles just a couple
of miles away from the Pentagon.
Yet the hijackers waited
almost until the plane reached
Kentucky before taking it over.
Flight 93 took off from
Newark, New Jersey.
If the hijackers had taken it
over shortly after takeoff,
they could have reached
Washington in about 30 minutes.
Instead, they waited until
it was near Cleveland, Ohio
before turning it around.
Anyone planning such
an attack could easily
find out that any
hijacked airplane would
be intercepted within
20 minutes anywhere
in the Northeast Corridor.
But these guys chose
to depart from airports
over 100 miles from their
targets in three of the cases
and waiting for nearly a
half hour in all four cases
before they took
over the flights.
That's one heck of a way
to expose the entire plot
to certain interception if
air defenses were operating
normally.
But maybe these people realize
that the air defense system
would not be operational.
For domestic air defense, the
US has a nationwide air traffic
control system that
is continuously
monitoring air traffic.
In cases of any deviations of
any aircraft from their flight
paths or loss of radio contact,
air traffic controllers
notify NORAD, that's North
American Air Defense.
NORAD is constantly monitoring
air and space traffic.
If there is an
emergency of any kind,
it can order the Air Force
or other armed services
to scramble fighters to
deal with the situation.
On September 11, 2001,
every part of that system
broke down, every part.
We know, based on the
official timeline,
the response times for
reporting the deviating aircraft
were many times longer than
they were supposed to be.
Then NORAD, once notified
of the off-course aircraft,
failed to scramble jets
from the nearest bases.
Instead, they scrambled them
from much more distant bases.
Then, once airborne,
the interceptors
failed to reach their targets.
Why?
Because they flew at small
fractions of their top speeds.
Or sometimes they flew
in the wrong directions.
Had there not been multiple
failures at each stage,
if even one procedure
of the process
had been followed correctly, the
attack could have been stopped.
NORAD had time to protect
the World Trade Center,
even given the unbelievably
late time when it claims
to have been first notified.
It had time to protect the
South Tower and Washington,
even given its bizarre
choices of bases
from which to scramble planes.
And it still had
ample opportunity
to protect both New York City
and Washington even if it
insisted that all interceptors
fly subsonic simply
by redeploying
airborne fighters.
But everything failed.
There is certainly more
suspicious behavior about 9/11
including several events
immediately preceding
the event suggesting that
many people anticipated
the attack, extremely large
amounts of insider trading
in what are known
as put options.
A put option on Wall Street is
an agreement, well, an option,
to sell assets at
an agreed price
on or before a particular date.
So in other words, it's really
good for insider traders
who know that a certain
stock is going to fall.
You get to sell at a
much higher price that's
been previously agreed upon.
This happened in massive numbers
to United Airlines and American
Airlines stocks.
Someone knew what
was going down.
Same thing for put options
on reinsurance companies
expected to pay out
billions to cover losses
from the attack, Munich
Re and the AXA Group
as well as financial services
companies like Merrill
Lynch, Morgan Stanley, and
Bank of America, all of whom
were badly hurt by the attack.
A number of important
people admitted
to have been warned
not to fly that day.
Perhaps most well-known was San
Francisco Mayor, Willie Brown.
But there were many others.
There was Donald Rumsfeld's
statement shortly before 9/11
that the Pentagon
had lost $2 trillion.
>>DONALD RUMSFELD:
According to some estimates,
we cannot track $2.3 trillion
dollars in transactions.
>>TV HOST: $2.3
trillion with a T.
That's $8,000 for every man,
woman, and child in America.
>>RICHARD: There is
the privatization
of the World Trade Center just
six weeks before the attack.
There were the war games.
The late 9/11 researcher and
former LAPD Detective Michael
Rupert uncovered something
of great importance.
In May of 2001, Vice
President Dick Cheney
was placed directly
in charge of managing
the, quote, seamless integration
of all training exercises
throughout the
federal government
and military agencies.
Not only did the morning of 9/11
begin with multiple training
exercises of war games
and terror drills,
but Cheney was in
charge of managing them.
These included
live fly exercises
with military aircraft
posing as hijacked aircraft
over the United States as well
as simulated exercises that
placed false blips, that
is radar blips indicating
virtual planes, on
FAA radar screens.
One exercise titled Northern
Vigilance pulled Air Force
fighters up into Canada
simulating a Russian air
attack.
So there were very few fighters
remaining on the East coast
to respond.
All of this paralyzed Air
Force response or at least
helped significantly
to hamper it.
Dick Cheney also happened to
be one of the main government
officials deciding that these
extensive war games would
take place on that day.
It's worth bearing in mind
that American intelligence
had collected dozens of
warnings from governments
and intelligence agencies
indicating that terrorists were
planning to hijack
civilian aircraft
and crash them into American
targets on the ground
during the week of
September 9th, 2001.
9/11 did not come
out of the blue.
It was entirely within the realm
of possible expected events,
unlike what the US
government later claimed.
And Dick Cheney effectively
was running the show that day.
Well, my goodness, we have
gone into a great deal
of information.
And the truth is we've
only scratched the surface.
Thankfully, 9/11 has
been covered many times.
Still, it never hurts to
keep talking about 9/11.
After 15 years, there's
still great value
in talking about this event
with a critical and clear eye.
We delve into these matters
as we do for a reason.
When our rights are taken away,
we have the right to know why.
When our own government
attacks us and then tells us
that it needs more power in
order to make us more safe,
we can question that.
We don't have to be taken
in by the illusions.
Because if we seek
transformation,
we need truth as our
constant companion.
Join me next time on False Flags
when we continue our journey
into 9/11, this time
exploring the motivations
behind the event.
I'm Richard Dolan.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]